SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/cg5pm9j2ppgo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-20
TEAMS: Aston Villa, Brighton, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, Everton, Liverpool, Manchester City, Newcastle, Ipswich, Real Madrid, AC Milan
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: Emslie recalled by Scotland five months after giving birth
---

Emslie recalled by Scotland five months after giving birth
- Published
Claire Emslie has been recalled by Scotland for their final Women's World Cup qualifying double-header against Israel, five months on from giving birth.
The Angel City forward had her first child, Jamie, in December and made her return for the NWSL side on 10 May - Mother's Day in the United States.
That was her first club appearance since 9 May 2025, while her most recent Scotland appearance was in April last year, when Michael McArdle's side were hammered 6-1 in Germany.
"I'm super pleased for Claire," head coach Melissa Andreatta said. "She's been a stalwart of the team and I think everyone saw the hard work she was doing long before wee Jamie arrived and that's continued after his birth.
"Our performance teams have worked really hard to support her return to play but ultimately at this level the individual has to be really be responsible for that.
"She's a top pro and she's done everything within her powers to give herself the best shot of being selected.
"From my experience with athletes returning as mothers, [she will come back as] an even better athlete, an even more committed footballer, someone who's going to give their all for the country that they love."
The June matches will both be played behind closed doors in Hungary at Budapest's Bozsik Arena.
The Scottish FA has not explained why the 'home' game is not in Scotland, other than to say that "the decision to play both matches at a neutral venue... is in line with the other teams in Group B4".
AC Milan captain Christy Grimshaw - who was sidelined for 13 months with an ACL and MCL tear - also receives a first call-up from Andreatta having last played for her country two years ago.
Uncapped defender Kenzie Weir, who was a replacement in last month's squad, is the third and final change, with injured duo Charlotte Newsham (ACL) and Maria McAneny (hip) dropping out alongside Rangers teenager Mia McAulay.
Unbeaten Scotland, who top Group B4 on goal difference and have secured their place in the play-offs later this year, will first play on Friday, 5 June at 17:00 BST before their final group game on Tuesday, 9 June at 18:00.
Scotland squad
Goalkeepers: Eartha Cumings (Manchester City), Lee Gibson (Glasgow City), Sandy MacIver (Washington Spirit).
Defenders: Georgia Brown (Jacksonville), Jenna Clark (Liverpool), Nicola Docherty (Rangers), Leah Eddie (Rangers), Sophie Howard (Como), Emma Lawton (Celtic), Rachel McLauchlan (Brighton & Hove Albion), Amy Muir (Glasgow City), Kenzie Weir (Everton, on loan at Ipswich Town)
Midfielders: Chelsea Cornet (Birmingham City), Erin Cuthbert (Chelsea), Christy Grimshaw (AC Milan), Kirsty Maclean (Liverpool), Miri Taylor (Aston Villa), Caroline Weir (Real Madrid).
Forwards: Eilidh Adams (Hibernian), Claire Emslie (Angel City), Lauren Davidson (Brann), Freya Gregory (Newcastle United), Kirsty Hanson (Aston Villa), Kirsty Howat (Crystal Palace), Kathleen McGovern (Hibernian).
