SOURCE: The Guardian
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2026/may/17/european-football-roma-lazio-milan-juventus-napoli
DATE: 2026-05-17
TEAMS: Arsenal, Real Madrid, Barcelona, PSG, Juventus
COMPETITION: Champions League
TITLE: European football: Roma close to Champions League return after beating Lazio
---

Roma took a huge step towards returning to the Champions League by beating Lazio 2-0 in a feisty derby which finished with both teams down to 10 men, while Napoli won 3-0 at Pisa to secure a top-four spot.
Gianluca Mancini smashed home two headers from corners, one in each half, at the Stadio Olimpico to move Roma up to fourth thanks also to Juventus’s shock 2-0 home defeat by Fiorentina.
Roma haven’t played in the Champions League since being knocked out in the last 16 by Porto in 2019, an absence which has left them lagging behind their rivals. But a win next weekend at relegated Verona will guarantee Roma a spot in Europe’s elite club competition thanks to a two-point gap separating them from both fifth-placed Como, 1-0 winners against Parma, and Juve who are now sixth.
The derby and all four other fixtures were pushed forward by half an hour to avoid a clash with the men’s final at the Italian Open tennis tournament, which will take place a stone’s throw from the Olimpico later this afternoon.
A massive security presence was on show all around the stadium but the atmosphere in the ground was one-sided with the Lazio fans continuing their months-long boycott of matches in protest against the owner, Claudio Lotito. Roma’s loud home support belted out song after song after a potentially massive win which on Sunday meant much more than just local pride.
The volatile nature of the derby was highlighted by Nicolò Rovella and Wesley being sent off in a scrap shortly after Mancini headed home the decisive second goal from Paulo Dybala’s corner in the 66th minute.
Juventus had started well against Fiorentina, with Francisco Conceição and Dusan Vlahovic creating early chances. But shortly after the half-hour mark, Cher Ndour’s shot took a deflection off Juve’s Teun Koopmeiners and found the net.
Vlahovic’s strike in the second half was disallowed after a video review due to offside, but Fiorentina’s Luca Ranieri was sent off for protesting against the goal being initially awarded. Despite their numerical disadvantage, 15th-placed Fiorentina doubled their lead in the 82nd minute through Rolando Mandragora.
Milan are third, level on 70 points with Roma after a hard-fought 2-1 win at Genoa which came thanks to a Christopher Nkunku penalty five minutes after half-time and Zachary Athekame’s drilled strike eight minutes from the end. The seven-time European champions’ form has fallen off a cliff in recent weeks but a win at home over Cagliari next weekend will guarantee Massimiliano Allegri’s team a spot in the top four.
Napoli were always favourites to win at relegated Pisa and made sure of their spot in next season’s Champions League. Scott McTominay got the ball rolling in the 21st minute with his 14th goal of the season, and the deal was as good as done five minutes later when Amir Rrahmani scored from an Eljif Elmas corner.
Rasmus Højlund rounded off a straightforward win in stoppage time as Napoli pulled five points ahead of Como and Juventus with one game remaining.
In La Liga Vinícius Júnior earned Real Madrid a 1-0 win at Sevilla on Sunday in the penultimate round of fixtures, but results elsewhere mean the hosts have secured safety from relegation. Levante earned a vital 2-0 win over Mallorca, who are 19th and in grave danger, along with Girona, 18th after a 1-0 defeat at Atlético Madrid.
After Kylian Mbappe complained midweek he had been told by the head coach, Alvaro Arbeloa, he was Madrid’s “fourth forward” after he came on as a substitute against Real Oviedo, the French superstar started against Sevilla. Mbappe teed up his strike partner Vinícius to send Madrid ahead in Andalusia, bringing down a cross which the Brazilian powered home.
In the capital, Atlético’s Antoine Griezmann started against Girona in his final match at the Metropolitano before joining MLS side Orlando City. The France forward, Atlético’s all-time top goalscorer, arrived for the match visibly emotional. Playing for the 500th time in Atlético colours, Griezmann set up Ademola Lookman for the game’s only goal.
Barcelona also bid farewell to veteran Polish striker Robert Lewandowski in his final home game against Real Betis.
Lewandowski, who has won three league titles in four seasons with the club, could not get a goal in his last game at Camp Nou.Instead, Raphinha opened the scoring with a free-kick and then slotted home a second.
Isco pulled one back from the penalty spot but João Cancelo restored Barcelona’s two-goal lead with a placed effort from outside the area.
“When I arrived in Barcelona I knew that this club was big, however, thanks to your love it has been incredible,” said Lewandowski afterwards. “Today I say goodbye to the stadium, but I will always carry Barcelona in my heart.”
Espanyol ensured their safety by beating Osasuna 2-1 to record a second consecutive victory, after an astonishing 18-match run without a win. Alavés also secured their top-flight status with a 1-0 win over already-relegated Real Oviedo.
Elche, 17th, defeated Getafe 1-0 to boost their hopes of avoiding relegation. They will face Girona on the final day of the season in a potentially decisive clash.
Paris Saint-Germain lifted the Ligue 1 trophy but then lost 2-1 away to neighbours Paris FC in their last game before the Champions League final against Arsenal, as Lille secured qualification for Europe’s elite club competition on the final night of the French season.
PSG clinched a fifth straight French title, and a record extending 14th overall, with a 2-0 win over nearest challengers Lens on Wednesday, and they were handed the trophy in a low-key ceremony before kick-off at the Stade Jean-Bouin.
Coach Luis Enrique included many of his most important players in his line-up in PSG’s last outing before they face Arsenal in Budapest on May 30, when they will attempt to retain the European crown they won for the first time in the club’s history last season.
But they were dealt a blow when Ousmane Dembele, last year’s Ballon d’Or winner and the newly-crowned Ligue 1 player of the season, came off before the half-hour mark in an apparent injury scare.
Bradley Barcola gave PSG the lead early in the second half, but substitute Alimami Gory equalised and then scored a stoppage-time winner for Paris FC, who finish 11th in their first season since promotion to the top flight.
Lille clinched third place and a return to the Champions League for next season, despite ending the campaign with a 2-0 defeat at home to Auxerre.
Elversberg will play in the Bundesliga for the first time ever next season after earning promotion with a 3-0 home win over Preussen Münster on Sunday, sparking wild celebrations at the Waldstadion an der Kaiserlinde which can hold most of the town’s inhabitants.
The win, thanks to Bambase Conte’s early goal and a double from David Mokwa, secured second place in the standings ahead of Paderborn on goal difference, with fans streaming onto the pitch to celebrate.
Elversberg suffered heartbreak last season in only their second-ever campaign in the second tier, losing out on promotion in a playoff with Bundesliga side Heidenheim, but now become the smallest town to have a team in the German top flight.
Spiesen-Elversberg has a population of around 13,000 while the club’s ground has a capacity of 10,000, and Elversberg have achieved three promotions in the last five seasons in a remarkable rise from the lower leagues.
