SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/cn5p67d1l70o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-20
TEAMS: Aston Villa, Brentford, Liverpool, Nottingham Forest, Bournemouth
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: How would Aston Villa winning Europa League impact Champions League places?
---

How would Aston Villa winning Europa League impact Champions League places?
- Published
England will miss out on the possibility of having six teams in next season's Champions League if Aston Villa win Wednesday's Europa League final and finish in the top four of the Premier League.
Because of the performance of English clubs in Uefa's three club competitions this season - the Champions League, Europa League and Conference League - England were given one of two Elite Performance Spots (EPS).
It means that instead of four Premier League clubs qualifying for next season's Champions League, England will have five. Spain have also won an EPS, with Real Betis taking the extra spot.
Because of that, clubs in the Premier League's top five will play in next season's top-tier Champions League.
One of the other ways of qualifying for next season's Champions League is by winning the Europa League.
Villa face German side Freiburg on Wednesday night in this season's Europa League final in Istanbul, Turkey.
In the scenario where Villa were to win the Europa League and finish in fifth spot, it would mean that England's EPS will be taken by the Premier League team finishing sixth.
This is because EPS are applied after all other forms of qualification.
Get in touch
Send us your questions
What needs to happen for Premier League to get six Champions League spots?
Going into Sunday's final round of Premier League fixtures, Villa are fourth and three points clear of Liverpool in fifth.
Should they beat Freiburg, the only way England will have six spots in the Champions League is if Villa were to finish in fifth place.
In that scenario, England's five spots would be made up of the top four Premier League clubs and sixth, as Villa's qualification would technically be as the winners of the Europa League and not as a Premier League qualifier.
Bournemouth are currently in sixth place and would secure a top-six finish by avoiding defeat at Nottingham Forest on the final day of the season.
The Cherries can finish fifth, but would need to win and hope Liverpool lose to Brentford, as well as a significant swing in goal difference.
However if Villa do finish in the top four, having won the Europa League, England will miss out on the chance of having six English clubs. Instead, the top five would be England's five representatives in the competition.
In this scenario, Portuguese side Sporting would be moved from the third qualifying round to the league phase. Sporting are the highest-ranked team via Uefa's club coefficient rankings to have earned a qualifying round spot for next season's competition.
Because Sporting would be moved up from the third round of qualifying, the two sides ranked highest that are entering the league path's second qualifying round will advance into the third round.
Bodo/Glimt and Olympiakos are the two sides in line to be moved forward one round of qualifying in that scenario.
In the scenario where Freiburg win the Europa League, they will qualify for the Champions League, and the Premier League's top five clubs will enter the Champions League.
This article is the latest from BBC Sport's Ask Me Anything team.
