SOURCE: The Guardian
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2026/may/18/i-still-cant-believe-it-how-aarhus-went-from-sleeping-giants-to-their-first-title-in-40-years
DATE: 2026-05-18
TEAMS: Brentford
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: ‘I still can’t believe it’: Aarhus go from sleeping giants to their first title in 40 years
---

When the buses pulled up at Brøndby Stadion on the penultimate weekend of the season, the travelling fans were already celebrating. The final whistle had just blown at Nordsjælland, where Aarhus’s title rivals, Midtjylland, had been held to a goalless draw. That meant Aarhus Gymnastikforening (or AGF for short) could secure the Danish title for the first time since 1986 with a win against Brøndby. The atmosphere was electric before kick-off, the AGF fans displaying a huge tifo with the message: “Let’s write history together.” It didn’t take long for the team to meet the moment, Henrik Dalsgaard, the former Brentford and Midtjylland defender, scoring from a corner after three minutes. The away end erupted, 40 years of hurt swept away in an outpouring of euphoria.
“It was one of the greatest days of my life and I think a lot of other AGF fans would say that too,” says Jakob Emil Beikes, the chair of AGF’s fanclub. “When we were celebrating it was just everything, all the feelings coming through. I still can’t believe it, actually. It’s insane.”
A goal from the midfielder Kevin Yakob finished the job and, before long, the Aarhus fans, players and staff were jumping in unison, the final whistle long gone, to the backdrop of an otherwise empty stadium. The long drive home was soundtracked by songs, laughter, tears, the Champions League anthem – as title winners, AGF will enter in the second qualifying round – and champagne corks popping. Back in Aarhus, the party went on long into the night. “I think it’s one of the greatest champions’ celebrations in perhaps all the years,” says Beikes.
The festivities carried on all week, much of the city turning out to celebrate the team’s achievement. After they finished sixth last season, 23 points behind the serial champions, FC Copenhagen, few expected AGF to challenge at the top this term. Under the management of the former Denmark international Jakob Poulsen, who succeeded Uwe Rösler last summer after impressing in his first coaching job at Viborg, they have gone from a solid, pragmatic approach to a more fluid style characterised by midfield control and dangerous wide play. Their top scorers this season, Tobias Bech and Kristian Arnstad, are both wingers, while Gift Links, a versatile South Africa international who plays at left wing-back, has provided a constant threat going forward and regular supply of assists. They also have the tightest defence in the league with Dalsgaard, a trusted lieutenant of Thomas Frank at Brentford who was crucial to Premier League promotion, marshalling the team from centre-back.
All of them are now heroes in a city that has been devoted to the team through good and bad. Having won five league titles up to 1986, making them one of the most decorated clubs in Denmark, AGF’s Danish Cup triumph in 1996, at the end of a season when they were also runners-up in the league, was their sole success for the next three decades. They have been relegated three times this century, in 2006, 2010 and 2014, though they have bounced back at the first time of asking on each occasion. Supporting the club over the past 40 years has been an emotional odyssey which has given fans cherished highs and intense lows.
Many attribute their resurgence over the past decade to the appointment of Jacob Nielsen as chief executive in 2014. Commemorating his 10th anniversary at the club in 2024, Lars Fournais, the chair of the club’s board, said Nielsen was “the most important signing I have made in my time at AGF”. Smart recruitment and off-field strategy have allowed the team to make progress, agonising cup final losses in 2016 and 2024 serving as evidence they were at least ready to compete for honours again. There were also third-place league finishes in 2020 and 2023, incremental successes that helped pave the way for this season’s triumph.
Having won the league on the road, AGF were able to lift the trophy on home turf on Sunday as they thrashed Viborg 6-2 in the final game of the season. With the Aarhus Stadion, their ground for more than a century, in the process of being rebuilt, the club have been using the smaller Vejlby Stadion this term, playing out a title-winning campaign in lower-league surroundings. “We will have fond memories, definitely,” says Beikes of their temporary home.
AGF’s title win is further testament to the competitiveness of domestic football in Scandinavia, fitting into a wider trend of unheralded teams smashing the status quo. Mjällby are the reigning champions in Sweden, having won the league for the first time last season, while Viking are the Norwegian title holders after a wait of 34 years. Though many expect Denmark’s heavyweights, Midtjylland and Copenhagen, to come out swinging next season, AGF have shown they are more than capable of punching above their weight. “I think this is a great foundation to become an even bigger club perhaps,” says Beikes. “I don’t think that we will make it to the Champions League league phase [next season], but we just have to do a good job and do our best. That’s what I expect.”
