SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/c4g8kk1vrdzo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-19
TEAMS: Arsenal, Aston Villa, Chelsea, Everton, Manchester City, Manchester United, Bayern Munich
COMPETITION: Football
TITLE: Man Utd midfielder Toone returns to England squad
---

Man Utd midfielder Toone returns to England squad
- Published
Manchester United midfielder Ella Toone has returned to the England squad for the crucial Women's World Cup qualifiers against Spain and Ukraine.
The 26-year-old has not featured for the Lionesses since November because of a hip issue that ruled her out for the second half of the Women's Super League season.
Chelsea defender Lucy Bronze is also included despite missing Saturday's WSL win over United and having been seen wearing a protective boot.
Bronze, 34, has started three of England's four qualifying matches but is a doubt for next week's World Sevens tournament.
"It's great to have [Toone] back and to see her on the pitch is really great. I think she is really ready to come back," manager Sarina Wiegman told BBC Radio 5 Live.
"In her funny way, she told me in April when she came over to say hi: 'Yes, I'm a number 10, I can still play!' It's good to have her back.
"Lucy [Bronze] has a small injury. It's a precaution. We do expect she will be back. There's two weeks to go, so we expect her to be ready."
Chelsea striker Aggie Beever-Jones and London City Lionesses forward Freya Godfrey, who both missed the last camp through injury, also return.
However, 18-year-old midfielder Erica Meg Parkinson is not included after her surprise call-up in March, while in-form Everton defender Ruby Mace again misses out.
There is still no place in the 25-player squad for Manchester City midfielder Grace Clinton, who has fallen down the pecking order after an injury-ridden campaign.
Asked about how Clinton managed her move from Manchester United to City last summer, Wiegman said: "She had a pretty hard season.
"She came into a very good environment, really enjoyed it, but had some setbacks with injury. Now the next step is that she shows up and gets more minutes.
"There is big competition going on there. She should keep stepping up and showing what she can do and deliver all the time."
England travel to Spain on 5 June (20:00 BST), before hosting Ukraine at Everton's Hill Dickinson Stadium on 9 June (20:00).
The Lionesses currently sit top of their qualifying group with four wins from four matches, including a vital 1-0 victory over Spain at Wembley in April.
Should England win their remaining two matches, they will automatically qualify for next year's World Cup in Brazil and avoid the play-off route.
"We look at the bigger picture and that's to qualify for the World Cup. Then we really want to do it as quickly as possible," added Wiegman.
"We have the first opportunity when we play Spain away. We know that is a hell of a challenge - for them also â because I think we are both very good teams."
Focus on errors can 'tarnish' goalkeepers - Hampton
- Published1 day ago
Full England squad
Goalkeepers: Hannah Hampton (Chelsea), Anna Moorhouse (Orlando Pride), Ellie Roebuck (Aston Villa)
Defenders: Lucy Bronze (Chelsea), Jess Carter (Gotham), Niamh Charles (Chelsea), Alex Greenwood (Manchester City), Lotte Wubben-Moy (Arsenal), Maya Le Tissier (Manchester United), Esme Morgan (Washington Spirit), Taylor Hinds (Arsenal), Leah Williamson (Arsenal).
Midfielders: Laura Blindkilde Brown (Manchester City), Lucia Kendall (Aston Villa), Jess Park (Manchester United), Georgia Stanway (Bayern Munich), Ella Toone (Manchester United), Keira Walsh (Chelsea).
Forwards: Aggie Beever-Jones (Chelsea), Chloe Kelly (Arsenal), Lauren James (Chelsea), Alessia Russo (Arsenal), Lauren Hemp (Manchester City), Freya Godfrey (London City Lionesses), Beth Mead (Arsenal).
