SOURCE: The Guardian
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2026/may/19/manchester-united-liverpool-chelsea-target-jarrod-bowen-west-ham-transfer
DATE: 2026-05-19
TEAMS: Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester United, Tottenham, West Ham
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: Manchester United, Liverpool and Chelsea target Jarrod Bowen amid drop threat
---

Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester United are interested in Jarrod Bowen as rival clubs prepare to capitalise on West Ham’s financial problems by targeting their best players.
West Ham will need to raise more than £100m if relegated from the Premier League and there is growing interest in Bowen from a host of top sides.
The England winger has registered a combined 21 goals and assists this season and will have a decision to make on his future if Nuno Espírito Santo’s side drop into the Championship.
Bowen has been outstanding for West Ham since joining from Hull in January 2020 and his status as one of the most loved players in the club’s history is not in doubt.
The 29-year-old, who will hope to be included when England name their squad for the World Cup on Friday, scored the winning goal when West Ham beat Fiorentina in the Conference League final in 2020.
Bowen has stayed loyal to West Ham and is thought to be happy in London but relegation could force him to reassess his priorities.
Liverpool have long been admirers of Bowen and could target him as they look to boost their forward options. United are keen to add more depth in attack after qualifying for the Champions League and regard Bowen’s versatility as a big plus. He predominantly plays on the right but can operate as a central striker and United are considering him as an option on the left wing.
Chelsea are another intriguing option. They have focused on signing young players but are keen to add more experience. Their interest in Bowen is not at an advanced stage but they believe he could offer competition on the right and potentially provide cover for their strikers.
It is unclear how much West Ham would want for Bowen, whose contract does not expire until 2030, but they will be under extreme pressure to make sales if relegation is confirmed this week.
There is also interest in Mateus Fernandes, with Arsenal, United and Paris Saint-Germain in for the Portugal midfielder. The Dutch winger Crysencio Summerville will also be up for sale. West Ham made a £104.2m loss in the last financial year and will need to make sales even if they stay up. If Tottenham take a point from either of their final two games, West Ham will go down.
