SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/cdxpw76vpy9o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-20
TEAMS: Unknown
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: Pitch invasions 'a bad look' - but Clarke praises Tartan Army
---

Pitch invasions 'a bad look' - but Clarke praises Tartan Army
- Published
National head coach Steve Clarke says fans spilling on to the pitch to celebrate in the domestic game is "a bad look" for Scottish football but praised the Tartan Army for avoiding such incidents.
Heart of Midlothian condemned "shameful scenes" they say forced their players to make a hasty exit from Celtic Park as home fans came on to the pitch to celebrate their victory seconds before the end of Saturday's Scottish title decider.
Celtic apologised to the Tynecastle club in a statement, before interim manager Martin O'Neill responded by saying it was "nonsense" to suggest that the pitch invasion had shamed Scottish football.
Celtic fans also entered the field of play after their late winner at Motherwell in the penultimate round of league fixtures, while police and fans were injured after both Celtic and Rangers fans invaded the pitch following March's Scottish Cup quarter-final.
For Clarke, it contrasted sharply with the jubilation of Scotland fans when the side scored two late goals against Denmark in their winner-takes-all World Cup qualifier in November.
No theatre or Scotland curveballs from loyal Clarke
- Published1 day ago
'Big game scorer' Stewart and Curtis make Scotland World Cup squad
- Published1 day ago
Stewart's remarkable rise from Scottish juniors to World Cup
- Published1 day ago
Was it to the Tartan Army's credit, he was asked, that none of the supporters came on to the grass at Hampden Park?
"Absolutely," he replied. "It just shows that you can enjoy yourself without going on the pitch. There's no need for people to go on the pitch.
"The way it ended with the scenes on Saturday at Celtic Park is not good for Scottish football. It's a bad look. It doesn't do anybody any favours."
Hearts had said "reports of serious physical and verbal abuse towards our players and staff, both on the pitch and elsewhere" would be investigated by Police Scotland.
Meanwhile, the Scottish Professional Football League was waiting for the match delegate's report to consider action.
"It's much better if the people could celebrate but stay where they should stay," Clarke said. "People invading the pitch is not right, because player safety is endangered and that's not correct anywhere."
He told the media as he announced his squad for the World Cup: "There's no way that people are going to come in through that door and try to disrupt you guys doing your job here. It's just not correct.
"On the pitch is the player's place of work. People should not go on the pitch. It's quite clear."
