SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/c0k2eg7kz3go?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-20
TEAMS: Manchester United, Newcastle, Nottingham Forest
COMPETITION: FA Cup
TITLE: Rotherham appoint McClaren to head of football role
---

Rotherham appoint McClaren to head of football role
- Published
Rotherham United have appointed former England manager Steve McClaren to a newly-created role as their head of football.
The 65-year-old joins the club six months after he resigned as Jamaica coach in November following their failure to secure automatic qualification to this summer's World Cup.
McClaren will be tasked with "providing strategic leadership" to Rotherham chairman Tony Stewart and the club's board on football-related matters, following their relegation to League Two last month.
Stewart said he looked forward to seeing the value McClaren's "unrivalled experience" would bring to the club.
'CV speaks for itself'
McClaren has extensive managerial experience, having been at the helm of Middlesbrough between 2001 and 2006, where he won the League Cup and guided Boro to the final of the old Uefa Cup in 2006.
He joined England soon afterwards, but left after failing to qualify for Euro 2008.
McClaren also had spells at Nottingham Forest, Derby County, Newcastle United and QPR, with two spells at Dutch side FC Twente and a season in Germany with Wolfsburg in between.
Before he joined Jamaica, he had a two-year spell as assistant to Erik ten Hag at Manchester United, where he had previously had a successful stint as Sir Alex Ferguson's number two before starting his own managerial career.
"Steve will provide the board with a new voice and a pair of eyes and ears that have seen how clubs ensure that they reach optimal performance at both the top club level and on the international stage," said Millers chairman Stewart.
"Conversations with Steve have been ongoing for a period of time now which was by design to ensure that both parties had a clear mutual understanding of what the role looks like and where we believe we can progress the football club to.
"His CV speaks for itself, but beyond that, we have been hugely impressed by his enthusiasm and desire to enact positive changes here at Rotherham United."
The first job for the Yorkshireman, who was born less than an hour from Rotherham, will be to help find the club a new manager.
Former Huddersfield Town and Birmingham City boss Lee Clark departed the club at the end of the season after failing to keep Rotherham in the third tier, the Millers finishing 11 points from safety in 23rd place.
