SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/cg7pvk157peo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-20
TEAMS: Unknown
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: Scotland boss Clarke set for new deal until Euro 2028 - gossip
---

Scotland boss Clarke set for new deal until Euro 2028 - gossip
- Published
Scotland head coach Steve Clarke is close to agreeing a new contract to stay as national team boss until Euro 2028. (The Times - subscription required), external
Heart of Midlothian are eyeing a move for Falkirk winger Calvin Miller - just months after a proposed return to Celtic fell through for the 28-year-old. (Daily Record), external
Celtic have no plans to loan out Callum Osmand for the 2026-27 campaign despite an injury-affected first season in Scotland for the 20-year-old forward. (Football Insider), external
Hannover will hold talks with Celtic on the future of Maik Nawrocki after they missed out on promotion to the Bundesliga as the German club are unlikely to be able to afford the £2m to turn the 25-year-old centre-half's loan move into a permanent one. (The National), external
Rangers have told their Fan Advisory Board the upcoming transfer window will "focus on improving leadership, mentality and squad chemistry, alongside addressing key positional needs", with winger Findlay Curtis set to be reintroduced after the 19-year-old's loan to Kilmarnock. (The Herald), external
Aston Oxborough has returned to Dunfermline Athletic in time for Saturday's Scottish Cup final after the 28-year-old goalkeeper was recalled from his loan by Motherwell as cover for their final Scottish Premiership game against Hibernian. (The Courier), external
Aberdeen winger Nicolas Milanovic looks set to leave this summer - one year into a three-year contract - after the 24-year-old was told he is not part of manager Stephen Robinson's plans. (Press & Journal), external
Ross County are keen on landing released Aberdeen winger Ryan Duncan after his loan spell in Dingwall, but the club relegated to League 1 expect to face competition for the 22-year-old's signature. (Press & Journal), external
Wednesday's English & European transfer rumours
- Published1 day ago
Tuesday's Scottish gossip
- Published1 day ago
Elie Youan, the 27-year-old forward who is out of contract with Hibernian, has revealed he has wanted to leave for two years but moves to Stoke City and Legia Warsaw fell through. (Edinburgh Evening News), external
Former St Johnstone striker Makenzie Kirk is poised to be sent out on loan to a League One club next season after the 22-year-old failed to become a regular starter with Portsmouth in the Championship. (Portsmouth News), external
At £8.7m, Udinese midfielder Lennon Miller is the most valuable player left out of Scotland's World Cup squad. (Transfermarkt), external
Rangers' Fan Advisory Board has raised "concerns" regarding the post-split form under head coach Danny Rohl, noting that "sentiment has deteriorated" on a game-by-game basis and citing their record against top-six opposition as a "key concern". (The National), external
Head coach Steven Pressley admits he considered quitting Dundee during "dark" times this season. (The Courier), external
Former Rangers manager Dick Advocaat has refused to explain why he returned as Curacao head coach and says he is only focused on the future, which includes a friendly against Scotland before their debut in the World Cup finals. (Glasgow Times), external
Gary Naysmith asked if Ayr United could announce his appointment as manager early because he could not lie to his Stenhousemuir players before their Championship play-off final. (Scottish Sun), external
