SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/crl177pxrl4o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-18
TEAMS: Arsenal, Aston Villa, Liverpool, Manchester City, Manchester United, Real Madrid, Barcelona, Bayern Munich, Inter Milan, Atletico Madrid, Dortmund
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: Who has qualified for next season's Champions League?
---

Who has qualified for next season's Champions League?
- Published
Aston Villa are among the 24 clubs to have qualified for the league phase of the 2026-27 Champions League.
With a 4-2 win over Liverpool at Villa Park on Friday, Villa became the fourth English club to seal a place in Europe's elite club competition for next term.
They join Arsenal, Manchester City and Manchester United in ensuring they will finish no lower than fifth in the Premier League this season.
Traditionally, England is awarded four places in the Champions League. But strong performances in Uefa club competitions this season mean the nation has been given one of two Elite Performance Spots (EPS), resulting in the top five Premier League clubs qualifying.
Joining them so far are Inter Milan, Napoli, Bayern Munich, Borussia Dortmund, RB Leipzig, Stuttgart, Barcelona, Real Madrid, Villarreal, Atletico Madrid, Real Betis, Paris St-Germain, Lens, Lille, PSV Eindhoven, Feyenoord, Galatasaray, Shakhtar Donetsk, Slavia Prague and Porto.
Inter and Napoli have both secured a top-four finish in Serie A, with Italy's top flight still having two places up for grabs.
Like the Premier League, Spain's La Liga will be awarded an EPS, meaning it will also take five places in next season's Champions League.
Real Betis have taken that EPS, joining fellow La Liga sides Barcelona, Real Madrid, Atletico and Villarreal in next season's competition.
Bayern, PSV, Porto, Slavia Prague and Galatasaray have already won league titles in Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Czech Republic and Turkey respectively, guaranteeing their places.
Borussia Dortmund, RB Leipzig and Stuttgart earned top-four finishes in the Bundesliga, while Lens and Lille qualified by finishing second and third in Ligue 1.
For winning Ukraine's top flight, Shakhtar were due to enter in the second round of qualifying.
However, with this season's Champions League finalists Arsenal and Paris St-Germain already guaranteed a place in next season's competition, a replacement title holder was required.
Shakhtar were the highest-ranked domestic champions from Uefa's club coefficient list, outside the top 10 associations, not to be confirmed for the league phase.
As a result, they take the spot initially reserved for the winner of this season's Champions League.
A total of 36 teams will compete in the league phase of the Champions League, 29 of which will be decided before the end of this season.
The other seven all come from qualification, taking place in the early months of the 2026-27 campaign.
Get in touch
Send us your questions
How many spots are given to each nation?
Two places for next season's Champions League league phase go to the winners of this season's Champions League and Europa League.
Following that, to determine how many places each nation gets, Uefa uses its association rankings from the five-year period ending two seasons prior to that campaign.
For example, for the 2026-27 season, places are used based on Uefa rankings between the 2020-21 and 2024-25 seasons.
With England, Italy, Spain and Germany ranked first to fourth respectively, the top four teams in their leagues qualify straight to the league path.
From France, which ranks fifth, the top three teams in Ligue 1 directly qualify. Fourth place will also earn a spot in the third qualifying round of the competition.
The Netherlands is ranked sixth and is awarded spots for the top two Eredivisie sides, as well as third place entering the third qualifying round.
Portugal, Belgium, Czech Republic and Turkey, ranked seventh to 10th in order, are given two places each. The league winners from all four countries get a spot in the league phase. The league runners-up in Portugal, Belgium and Czech Republic all get a place in the third qualifying round, while Turkey are given an extra team in the second qualifying round.
Norway, Greece, Austria and Scotland are the nations ranked 11th to 14th. The winners of each league get a place in the play-off qualifying round, effectively the fourth and final round of qualifying. All four countries also get a second place in the second qualifying round.
Poland, ranked 15th, will have its top two clubs enter in the second qualifying round. All other nations only get one team each, all of which will enter in either of the first two rounds of qualifying.
Through qualifying, seven spots in the league phase are available. Teams are split into the 'champions path' and the 'league path'.
Champions path clubs, who are league winners from nations outside the top 10 during the qualifying period, will compete for five spots.
The other two spots go to league path clubs, a separate qualifying route for clubs from nations given multiple qualifying spots without winning their domestic league.
The EPS spots for next season went to teams from England and Spain.
The winners of this season's Champions League - Arsenal or Paris St-Germain - have already qualified for next season's competition because of performances in their domestic league.
Uefa has awarded the spot set aside for the holders to the league winner that has yet to directly qualify for the Champions League with the highest club coefficient ranking over a five-year period ending this season.
This spot was won by Shakhtar.
Full list of teams in the 2026-27 Champions League
Arsenal (Premier League)
Manchester City (Premier League)
Manchester United (Premier League)
Aston Villa (Premier League)
Inter Milan (Serie A)
Napoli (Serie A)
Barcelona (La Liga)
Real Madrid (La Liga)
Villarreal (La Liga)
Atletico Madrid (La Liga)
Real Betis (La Liga EPS)
Bayern Munich (Bundesliga)
Borussia Dortmund (Bundesliga)
RB Leipzig (Bundesliga)
Stuttgart (Bundesliga)
Paris St-Germain (Ligue 1)
Lens (Ligue 1)
Lille (Ligue 1)
PSV Eindhoven (Eredivisie)
Feyenoord (Eredivisie)
Porto (Liga Portugal)
Slavia Prague (Czech First League)
Galatasaray (Super Lig)
Shakhtar Donetsk (Title-holder replacement)
Europa League winner
Premier League fifth (EPS)
Serie A top four
Serie A top four
Belgian Pro League winners
Winner of play-off qualifying round tie (Champions Path)
Winner of play-off qualifying round tie (Champions Path)
Winner of play-off qualifying round tie (Champions Path)
Winner of play-off qualifying round tie (Champions Path)
Winner of play-off qualifying round tie (Champions Path)
Winner of play-off qualifying round tie (League Path)
Winner of play-off qualifying round tie (League Path)
This article is the latest from BBC Sport's Ask Me Anything team.
