SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/articles/cd031ddxgdzo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-18
TEAMS: Arsenal, Chelsea, Manchester City, Manchester United, Nottingham Forest
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: Who has the most Premier League assists in a season?
---

Who has the most Premier League assists in a season?
- Published
Manchester United Bruno Fernandes has equalled the record for most assists in a Premier League season, reaching 20 during United's 3-2 victory over Nottingham Forest on Sunday.
Fernandes is now level with Thierry Henry in 2002-03 and Kevin De Bruyne in 2019-20, with one more game to set a new record.
Fernandes' current total for this season is eight more competitor - Manchester City's Rayan Cherki - and his total assists for United now stands at 104 in all competitions.
Get in touch
Send us your questions
What is the Premier League record for assists in one season?
The highest number of assists provided across a single Premier League season is 20 - a total which has been reached by two players
Thierry Henry registered 20 for Arsenal in 2002-03, as well as scoring 24 goals.
Manchester City's Kevin de Bruyne then recorded 20 assists of his own during the 2019-20 Premier League campaign.
Fernandes has one games remaining to notch one more assist and break the record.
It took him until the eighth week of the season to register an assist and he has maintained an assist-per-game ratio of 0.69 since then.
Who has the record for all-time Premier League assists?
Former Manchester United winger Ryan Giggs holds the record for most Premier League assists, with a so-far unchallenged tally of 162.
Giggs' next closest competitor is Kevin de Bruyne, who registered 119 assists during his time in the league with Chelsea and Manchester City.
Fernandes is currently in 19th place on the all-time list, having achieved 71 Premier League assists so far - with a daunting 92 assists to go before he will break the overall record.
This article is the latest from BBC Sport's Ask Me Anything team.
