SOURCE: BBC Sport
URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/c2d27x4pdneo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss
DATE: 2026-05-20
TEAMS: Ipswich, Southampton
COMPETITION: Premier League
TITLE: Wrexham star wants Championship play-offs restart
---

Wrexham star wants Championship play-offs restart
- Published
Wrexham forward Josh Windass has questioned why the Championship play-offs are not being restarted following the Southampton spygate scandal.
Southampton have been expelled from the play-offs after admitting they spied on three league rivals this season.
Saints say the sanction, that includes a four-point deduction next season, is disproportionate and have lodged an appeal.
Wrexham missed out on the play-offs by two points on the final day of the season - following a draw with Middlesbrough - and Windass says the four-team competition should be started again, with Wrexham taking Southampton's place.
"This story is one of the maddest I've seen. But why isn't the play-offs starting again with the four other teams?" he posted on social media.
"Boro v Hull would have been the semi! Confused."
Wrexham finished nine points behind Southampton at the end of the regular season. Replacing Southampton in the play-offs was not a potential outcome of the EFL's independent disciplinary commission.
But the club is monitoring the situation and will wait for the imminent release of the full written reasons of the verdict before considering if there is any course of action to take.
One option is that Wrexham - and other clubs impacted - could have the potential of a legal claim for compensation if it is shown Southampton gained an unfair advantage during the campaign, affecting the chances of reaching the play-offs.
No discussions have taken place at this stage, but the club is keeping options open.
"We look forward to receiving the full details of the decision in due course," a club spokesperson said.
Wrexham owners Ryan Reynolds and Rob Mac have both posted images on social media mocking Southampton.
Former Hull City defender Curtis Davies also questioned possible consequences from the disciplinary commission's verdict.
"Whether it's the right decision or not is down to opinion," Davies wrote on Instagram.
"But after today's appeal I wonder where Wrexham and even Millwall might stand.
"Wrexham finished seventh and could argue they'd have been in the play-offs. Millwall finished third but lost their play-off to Hull, Boro also lost but have gone through."
Southampton admitted spying on Middlesbrough training before the first leg of their play-off semi-final as well as watching Ipswich Town and Oxford United training sessions during the regular season.
Middlesbrough have been reinstated and will face Hull at Wembley on Saturday for a place in the Premier League, pending the outcome of Southampton's appeal.
The EFL said it would be "working to try and resolve any appeal on Wednesday, 20 May".
It added that "subject to the outcome, it could result in a further change to Saturday's fixture".
The appeal will be heard by an Independent League Arbitration panel with three new members.
